Congratulations you just received an offer from a company you should be proud of yourself.
Pay yourself on the back.
Take a couple breaths and now let's talk about what you should do next.
You just received an offer.
What is your response going to be if you say yep this sounds great.
Let's do it.
You just ended the conversation.
You just accepted and you've closed the door on any sort of negotiation.
That's it.
As a recruiter or an interviewer their job is done.
They hired you but is there a better way.
Remember we don't want to end the conversation here.
Instead you might want to say something along the lines of this.
This sounds fantastic.
I really thought this was a great fit.
When I met you and I interviewed you and I'm really glad to see that we both agree and you see a good
fit here right now I'm talking to a few other companies so I can't really speak to the full details
of the offer until I'm done with the interviewing process.
And I'm closer to making a decision but I'm sure that we can find something that works great for us
because I would really love to be part of your team and I had a great time interviewing and I could
really see myself working there long term.
You see what I did there.
I kept the conversation going and I let them know that I may at other companies but I didn't seem very
greedy.
I instead said that I would love to work from them but I want to make sure that I make the right decision
based on the offers that I get.
Remember I was very positive you want to be positive when handling an offer you don't want to seem greedy
or that you're just shopping around and ideally when you receive an offer the first thing that you should
try and do is to ask for more time to make your decision.
Especially if this is your first offer because ideally you're not just into being a one company you're
interviewing at multiple companies.
And ideally if you're a well-prepared like you have been in this course then you're going to have a
few more offers come again.
So time is the most valuable thing you can ask for here.
The more time you have the more time you have to have offers from different companies so you can make
the right decision and pick the one or the company that has the best package for you.
Now you just received an offer you just told then that you're very excited and you're waiting around
for a few more things and you also ask for time and you have an idea of when they want to give you a
response.
The next thing you want to do is after you received the offer to let the other companies know again
if you're already intervening at other companies you now have a very powerful tool.
You have stakes you should be reaching out to all these companies that you haven't received an offer
from to let them know that you've just received an offer and you want to build a sense of urgency here
as if you have a timeline a deadline where you have to say yes or no to an offer.
So you would like to hear from these other companies as well.
And this is a classic psychological technique.
Remember your brain now and the best part of interview where the ball is in your court and you get to
decide what company you want to work for.
So you can actually send out an e-mail like this to the other companies.
Hello.
Name of company or person.
I just want to let you know and give you an update on my interviewing process.
I've just received an offer from another company.
You can get the company name which is quite strong.
With that said I'm really excited to potentially be working with your company.
I had a really good time interviewing with you and I really wanted to see if we can make things work.
Since my timeline is now a little bit compressed with this new offer is there anything we can do to
make the process go a little bit faster.
And that's it.
You've just let the other companies know that there's an other offer.
The other companies know that you're wanted and you're needed somewhere else.
This creates a lot of social proof and also creates urgency to psychological techniques that really
really help in negotiation.
You now have stakes you have to realize what a company's goals are.
A company's goal is to hire someone who will become an effective employee and produce more value than
the salary that they're paying them.
What's going to cost to hire you.
Companies try their best to figure out which candidates can produce that value.
It's a risky business right and it's impossible to know for certain until they start working in the
company and start producing results.
But there are a few ways of companies finding out.
That's what they interview for that's why they have coding challenges or coding interviews.
And another one is to see if somebody else wants them.
If another company wants you that means you succeeded through their interviewing process.
When you're interviewing at big companies and you have an offer from a big company or a competitor let's
say you're interviewing at Microsoft and Google just made you an offer you should definitely mention
that even the company name to Google so that they know you're wanted.
That creates a lot of social proof.
So remember no matter how useless or pointless you think this e-mail to other companies maybe you want
to send this signal to everybody letting them know that a company wants you.
It's a huge powerful negotiation tool.
Finally always know when the deadline is to respond to an offer.
Be honest with them and tell them that you're waiting on other offers from other companies and you want
to make sure that you make the right decision.
They may want to try and rush you and tell them that you have to give them an answer by tomorrow.
And we have to ask yourself is that the type of place you want to work they should respect your time.
And if fact that you are trying to figure out the best option.
When you're declining an offer be polite and don't burn any bridges.
Don't be mean because you never know when you might see them down the road or the person who is their
recruiter there.
My move to a different company and you never know when good relationships might take you further along
down your career.
So let's go over a few things.
What should you do.
The first thing is when you receive an offer you should know exactly what salary you want.
You have to go in there knowing why your value is why you're willing to get paid.
You need to make sure that you do your research on the average industry pay.
You want to make sure that you're getting paid what the average professional and your industry is getting
paid or above.
So you want to do your research and use Web sites like salary dot com Glassdoor dot com payscale dot
com or just simply google it and leave resources for you to find this out after this video.
The next what value do provide you know what type of salary you want.
But really ask this question and be able to answer yourself.
What value are I going to provide for the company.
What would you improve in the company.
What type of traits do you have that make you a valuable hire.
Think about how the company is going to drive value from you.
And by doing this research before hand you're able to use this when negotiating your salary and you
can mention how you would provide value and why you deserve perhaps a higher salary or a higher offer
than they are currently given.
And then finally you want to always go higher then why you wish to get because most likely they're not
going to agree with your initial demands and you want to meet somewhere in the middle where both parties
feel like they have a win win situation.
So if you know your salary you know what value you're going to provide to the company.
Then when perhaps talking about an offer go into that negotiation and make sure that your initial start
is higher then where you might land.
That's it for now.
Let's talk about an even more exciting topic in the next video which is what to do if you're lucky enough
to get multiple offers.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.